1. why docker what can it do ? 
- conrainerize application - completely issolated env like a new vm.
- Run each services with its own dependencies in seperate containers.

2. What are containers? 
completely issolated env like a new vm. 

3. what is operating system ? 
os (ubuntu) comes with os kernal ( interactive with underlying software)

4. container vs virtual machines: 
light weight its size is in mb's.
we can scale them as required. 

5. What is docker image:
- image is a package / template / plan
- we can run multiple container using one image.

6. Docker in devops:
- docker file creates image for application in such a way that it runs in same way everywhere. 

7. docker editions: 
- community edition -> available on linux,mac,windows,cloud like aws.
- enterprise edition 

8. Basic docker commands: 

Run - start a container.
ps - list containers.
ps -a - list the exited container.
stop containername - stops the container.
docker images - list the available images.
rmi - remove docker images -> make sure container is stopped. 
pull - download the image from dockerhub / only pull and doesnt run.
docker run ubuntu sleep 5 ->
-> container is not used to host os, it is used to execute the application like webservices. when application is failed container fails. 
docker exec containername cat /etc/hosts -> simply cats the content.
Run - attach and detech -> -d for detached mode to run application in background. 
docker attach cont_id -> to run in attached mode. 

Demo: 

docker tags:

used to download the perticilar version on image. redid 2.2.5
default tag is latest.

docker ports:
docker run -p 5000:80 application


docker volume - data presistent in docker.

for example mysql data in docker container . if container is stoped and removed then we will lose all the datas as well. 
in docker container mysql data is stored in /var/lib/mysql

so , docker run -v /opt/data:/var/lib/mysql mysql.

mount the external directoy to the folder inside docker container. 

docker Inspect container: to knoe the details of the container.. 

docker inspect container_name
docker logs container_name



Docker Images: 
Before that, why would you need to create your own image?
It could either be because you cannot find a component or a service that you want to use as part of
your application on Docker Hub already or you and your team decided that the application you're developing
will be authorized for ease of shipping and deployment.

Dockerfile:
Docker file is a text file written in a specific format that Docker can understand.
It's in an instruction and argument format.


FROM ubuntu -> what is the base image for this container, every docker container will have base image.
RUN -> The run instruction instructs Docker to run a particular command on those base images.(install dependencies of image) 
COPY . /opt/myimage -> Then the copy instruction copies files from the local system onto the Docker image.
In this case, the source code of our application is in the current folder and I will be copying it
over to the location open source code inside the Docker image.




